docs/resource_hub/meta_learning/index.md, before:

# Overview

## Learning Concepts

??? "Chunking - People remember grouped information better"

    ### Chunking

    Refers to an approach for making more efficient use of short-term memory by grouping information. Chunking breaks up lon strings of information into units or chunks. The resulting chunks are easier to commit to memeory than a longer uninterrupted string of information.

??? "Active Recall - Actively stimulate your memory for a piece of information.

    In opposition to passive review - when you read (and re-read) your textbook and highlighting the important information - active recall helps your brain solidify what its learned. 

??? "Spaced Repetition - Reviewing material at systematic intervals"

    ### Spaced Repetition

    An evidence-based learning technique that is usually performed with flashcards. Newly introduced and more difficult flashcards are shown more frequently, while older and less difficult flashcards are shown less frequently in order to exploit the psychological spacing effect. The use of spaced repetition has been proven to increase the rate of learning.

??? "Interleaving - Improve learning by mixing studying subjects or concepts"

    Interleaving is a learning technique that involves mixing together different topics or forms of practice, in order to facilitate learning.

    No matter how good a given resource is, it’s only when we sneak off and look at other material that we begin to see that what we learn through a single teacher or book is a partial version of the full, three-dimensional reality of the subject.

Commit message:

add openai images, fix rendering bugs, add a few resources

docs/resource_hub/meta_learning/index.md, after:

# Overview

List of resources to learn about learning. More to come very soon.

## Learning Concepts

??? "Chunking - People remember grouped information better"

    ### Chunking

    Refers to an approach for making more efficient use of short-term memory by grouping information. Chunking breaks up lon strings of information into units or chunks. The resulting chunks are easier to commit to memeory than a longer uninterrupted string of information.

??? "Active Recall - Actively stimulate your memory for a piece of information"

    In opposition to passive review - when you read (and re-read) your textbook and highlighting the important information - active recall helps your brain solidify what its learned. 

??? "Spaced Repetition - Reviewing material at systematic intervals"

    ### Spaced Repetition

    An evidence-based learning technique that is usually performed with flashcards. Newly introduced and more difficult flashcards are shown more frequently, while older and less difficult flashcards are shown less frequently in order to exploit the psychological spacing effect. The use of spaced repetition has been proven to increase the rate of learning.

??? "Interleaving - Improve learning by mixing studying subjects or concepts"

    Interleaving is a learning technique that involves mixing together different topics or forms of practice, in order to facilitate learning.

    No matter how good a given resource is, it’s only when we sneak off and look at other material that we begin to see that what we learn through a single teacher or book is a partial version of the full, three-dimensional reality of the subject.

## Resources

Coming soon.
